Javascript is  a high level,versatile programming language primarily used for the functionality and interactivity of web pages. Javascript uses JIT(Just In TIME) compiler which is in browser's JS Engine. Every Browser have JS engine and that is used to compiler, run Javascript.
Eg: chrome JS Engine -- v8
scripting languages always runs code line by line

History:
JS is launched on December 4th, 1995 and was created by Brendan Eich at NESCAPE communications.
Initially It is named as "LiveScript", but later for marketing purposes they change to "javascript" to capture java market.

EcmaScript,the standard specification for JAVASCRIPT aquired it and evolved until ES14 recently

How to include JS into HTML?
To include Javascript into HTML,we can use two ways
i. Internal Javascript
Internal JAVASCRIPT means we can write javascript code into html using script element
    <script>
        console.log("hello world")
    </script>
ii. External Javascript:
External Javascript means we can use external file or third party websites using script tag with src attribute
  <script src="./script.js"></script>

  Javascript is case sensitive
  Javascript code is recommanded to be written or mentioned at the end of the body

JS runs in the browser. Every Browser provides some Tools to make developer work easy. These tools are called as Developer Tools. concole is the part of developer Tools.console.log() is used print a value and debug the code(finding out the bugs)

comments in JS: Comments are used for the readabilty purposes. There are two ways to write the comments
   -- single line comment: it  is represented as '//'
   -- double line comment : it is represented between /* and */

variables:
 variables are used to store the data which varries
There are three ways:
i. var: var is a function scope variable which can redeclare and reassign
ii. let: let is a block scoped variable which cannot redeclared but can be reassigned
iii.const: const is a block scoped variable which cannot be redeclared or reassigned


There are some default methods in Javascript such as
  i. alert(msg): alert is used to alert the user with a specific message
  ii. confirm(msg): confirm is used to accept user's choice to confirm a task or not. it retuns true or false
  iii.  prompt(msg) : prompt is used to accept user's input as a string 









